# Frontend Boilerplate Framework

## Node Version

Node version `16.13.0`

## NVM For Windows - A Node Version manager

It is best to have NVM for Windows installed `https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows/releases` and have the correct version of **Node** installed.
- `nvm install 16.13.0` to install the version of node to be used
- `nvm use 16.13.0` to be used to switch to the correct version of node before any `npm install` is run.

## Static Files:

Anything within the `/src/static` folder will be copied to the `/build/[brand]/static` folder when you run any of the below `gulp` commands.

## Icon Fonts:

Icons can be generated in the icomoon app - `https://icomoon.io/app/#/select`, or an alternative way of your choice, i.e a sprite generator for .png and/or .svg

**TIP:** If using **Icomoon**, be sure to set the "Baseline Height (% Em)" to "0" (zero) in the font settings to ensure correct alignment of icons.

## Fav Icons:

Fav Icons can be generated by visiting `https://realfavicongenerator.net/`, or an alternative way of your choice, with the files saved to the `/src/static/[brand]/favicons/` folder

# Available Scripts to use:

In the project directory, you can run:

| Command         | Description                                                                                                                                                          |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `npm install`   | Installs all needed npm packages from package.json. This **needs** to be done before you do any development/deployment and **after** you've set the correct Node version (using NVM) |
| `npm run start:[brand]` | Builds and serves the solution for **development** from the `/build/[brand]` folder (on http://localhost:3000). Files are not minified.                                      |
| `npm run build:[brand]` | Builds/Minifies the static files needed for **production** deployment to `deployment specific` folders (specified in **gulpfile.mjs**)                                |
| `run [brand]` (cmd)     | Detects & changes to correct node version (using NVM) and then compiles and launches the **development** server                                                      |

# Script Detailed Information:

### `npm run start:[brand]` - Builds & Serves the solution for development

Generates the required HTML files, Javascript Files, CSS files, Static Files and publishes them into the `/build/[brand]` folder. The files generated **are not** minified so that they are easy to read. CSS Sourcemaps are also enabled.

**Opens [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) automatically in the browser.**

The page will reload if you make edits _(to both static side of project, as well as React)_

### `npm run build:[brand]` - Builds the solution without starting development server or generating the HTML files

Generates the required Javascript Files, CSS files, Static Files and publishes them into production folders for Sitecore and Packages (which is set in **gulpfile.js**).
Eg/ `dist/XXX.Sitecore.Web/wwwroot/`

The build also minifies the files for production.

### `run [brand]` (cmd console) - Detects & changes to correct node version (using NVM) and then runs the 'npm run start' task (which starts up development server)

**Opens [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) automatically in the browser.**

The page will reload if you make edits.


# Copying/Using Boilerplate for new site:
##### packages.json
- Update `name` value
- Update `config/title` value
- Update `author` info
- Update `repository` info

##### If different version of Node is required:
- Open cmd console and run `nvm install 16.13.0` (if you don't have the version required already installed)
- Update `engine/node` value in `packages.json`
- Update `requiredVersion` value in `run.bat`


Once all of the above is done:
- `nvm use 16.13.0` (if not already using it)
- `npm install`
- `npm run start` or `npm run build` (or `run`)

Once you have the correct version of Node installed via NVM, you can just use `run` moving forward to launch development server as it will change to the correct verison of node for you.
